<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>

    <title>Frequently Asked Questions</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../stylesheet.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
<link href="../../page_styles.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>

  


<link href="../../calibreHtmlOutBasicCss.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" />

</head>
<body>

<div class="calibreMeta">
  <div class="calibreMetaTitle">
  
  
    
    <h1>
      <a href="../../../index.html">Sigil User Guide
</a>
    </h1>
    
    
  
  </div>
  <div class="calibreMetaAuthor">
    Dave Heiland

  </div>
</div>

<div class="calibreMain">

  <div class="calibreEbookContent">
    
      <div class="calibreEbNavTop">
        
          <a href="tutorial_tips.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page</a>
        

        
          <a href="contributing_to_sigil.xhtml" class="calibreANext"> next page</a>
        
      </div>
    

    
  <h1 id="faq" class="calibre3">FAQ</h1>

  <p class="h1subheading">— Frequently Asked Questions —</p>

  <h2 id="faq_questions" class="calibre4">Where to Get Help</h2>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_11">Where can I get help with Sigil?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">If you have any questions about Sigil not covered in the Sigil User Guide, then visit the <a class="calibre2" href="http://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?f=203">Sigil Forum at MobileRead</a> [http://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?f=203] where the users and developers of Sigil will try to help.</p>

  <h3 class="heading">Where can I ask questions about EPUB?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">You can post on the <a class="calibre2" href="http://www.mobileread.com/forums/forumdisplay.php?f=179">EPUB Forum at MobileRead</a> [http://www.mobileread.com/forums/forumdisplay.php?f=179] if your questions are more about how to format and style something in an EPUB than how to do something in Sigil.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_12">Where can I report bugs or request features?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Read the <a class="calibre2" href="http://code.google.com/p/sigil/wiki/ReportingIssues">Reporting Issues</a> [http://code.google.com/p/sigil/wiki/ReportingIssues] information to submit a bug report or feature request.</p>

  <h2 id="faq_starting_sigil" class="calibre4">Starting Sigil</h2>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_53">Sigil does not start on my 32 bit Windows OS?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">If you are running a 32 bit version of Windows make sure you downloaded the 32 bit version of Sigil and not the 64 bit version.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_54">Sigil does not start on MAC OS 10.6?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Sigil on the MAC requires x64 bit cpus and MAC OS 10.6 (Snow Leopard) or later.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_55">Sigil does not start on Linux?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">You need to use a version of Sigil packaged for your version of Linux – go to the <a href="http://code.google.com/p/sigil/wiki/LinuxDistroPackages" class="calibre2">Linux Distro Packages</a> [http://code.google.com/p/sigil/wiki/LinuxDistroPackages] page to see if Sigil is packaged for your Linux version.</p>

  <h2 id="faq_using_sigil" class="calibre4">Using Sigil</h2>

  <h3 class="heading">Is There a Tutorial or Manual for Sigil?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Yes – in Sigil use Help-&gt;User Guide to see an HTML version of the Sigil User Guide which also includes tutorials. Or visit the <a href="http://code.google.com/p/sigil/" class="calibre2">Sigil home page</a> for a link to the HTML and EPUB versions.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_52">Can I write my book using Sigil?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Yes, you can, but Sigil is primarily an editing program for books that have already been written in one of the many existing word processors. You are probably better off writing your book in your favorite editor, exporting it to HTML, and then using Sigil to format it for EPUB. But if you really want to write and edit it in Sigil, then you certainly can.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_6">Are DOC, Mobi, KF8 formats supported?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Sigil is an EPUB editor. It can open EPUB files and import HTML files, but all other formats must be converted to HTML first before importing.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">There are a lot of formats out there, and converting from one format to another is not a trivial issue. Since there are already excellent tools for converting from one format to another, Sigil will remain focused on being the best EPUB editor available.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">For converting EPUB to other formats, <a class="calibre2" href="http://calibre-ebook.com/">calibre</a> [http://calibre-ebook.com/] is strongly recommended.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">For exporting Word files to HTML for import into Sigil, use Word's <span class="menuitem">Save As Filtered HTML</span> open, or refer to <a href="http://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=142530" class="calibre2">Save as HTML Word macro</a> [http://www.mobileread.com/forums/showthread.php?t=142530].</p>

  <p class="calibre1">To convert Mobi to HTML you can use calibre to unpack the Mobi file to access the HTML file or convert Mobi to HTML.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_23">How do I use Regex?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">See the <a class="calibre2" href="../Text/tutorial_regex.xhtml">Regular Expressions</a> chapter in the User Guide for more details and tips on using Regex.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_15">Sigil crashes when importing my file?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Sigil can only import or open valid HTML and EPUB files. It will try to recover from some common problems in files, but if there is a significant issue (missing standard code or files) then it may be unable to open the file. In some cases the file is so corrupt that it will cause Sigil to crash. Sometimes you will get an error message that might identify the problem with the file. In this case you may be able to open your file with a Zip or archive program and edit the files to correct them. But often the cause of the problem is not clear or not reported well from the low level software that Sigil is based on.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">If you want to report a problem with a file that cannot load and crashes Sigil, then you must attach the EPUB file to your bug report. You can set bug reports to private so that non-developers cannot see your file. But in most cases you will need to correct the file.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_25">Spell Check does not handle quotes or dashes correctly?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">If you install your own dictionary and it isn’t recognizing curly quotes, em-dashes, etc. then you may need additional hyphenation dictionary files. See <a href="../Text/preferences.xhtml" class="calibre2">Preferences</a> in the User Guide for more details.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_64">I pasted some richly formatted text into Sigil but it’s only pasted as plain text?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Don't paste rich text directly into Sigil. It doesn’t work very well.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">Instead, export (or convert) you text to HTML and then import the new file directly. This will preserve all formatting. Or if its a small amount of text you could try using the Paste from Word feature in Book View.</p>

  <h2 id="faq_formatting" class="calibre4">Formatting and Styles</h2>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_65">Why does my book display random question marks?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">This may be because your original file has <a class="calibre2" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soft_hyphen#Hyphens_in_computing">soft hyphens</a> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soft_hyphen#Hyphens_in_computing]. ADE (the Adobe software that is used to display EPUB files on many systems) does not handle soft hypens. So just remove the soft hypens from your file and the question marks will go away. Look for something like <span class="example">&amp;shy;</span> or <span class="example">&amp;#8209;</span>. Basically anything “strange” that exists between those two characters. But you have to look in Code View to see the raw HTML.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">It may also be because ADE cannot perform font substitution.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">In Sigil, if the font you are using does not have the required <a class="calibre2" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glyph">glyphs</a> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glyph] to render a character present in the text, glyphs from a different font that <em class="calibre16">can</em> render it are used. This is called font substitution. So as long as <em class="calibre16">some</em> fonts on your computer can display these characters, so can Sigil.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">ADE on the other hand only displays a small subset of Unicode characters by default. The supported characters are listed in the <a class="calibre2" href="http://www.adobe.com/devnet/pdf/pdf_reference_archive.html">Adobe PDF Reference v1.7</a> [http://www.adobe.com/devnet/pdf/pdf_reference_archive.html], Appendix D, tables D.1 and D.3.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">If you want other characters than these to display in ADE, you will have to embed the required fonts.</p>

  <h3 class="heading">How do I change the style of my text?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Read the <a href="../Text/tutorial_stylesheets.xhtml" class="calibre2">Stylesheet</a> chapter in the User Guide – you’ll need it to make use of many of the answers in this section.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">Note that ereaders may support displaying formats or styles differently and how text is display in one reader, or in Sigil, may be slightly different to how its displayed in another ereader.</p>

  <h3 class="heading">What are stylesheets and CSS?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">CSS stands for Cascading Stylesheets. See the <a class="calibre2" href="../Text/tutorial_stylesheets.xhtml">Stylesheet</a> chapter in the User Guide for more details on CSS and why you should use stylesheets to format your text.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_34">Can I embed my own fonts using Sigil?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Yes – see the <a href="../Text/tutorial_embed_fonts.xhtml" class="calibre2">Fonts</a> chapter in the User Guide.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_2">What does <span class="example2">sgc-1</span> mean in my document?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">SGC just indicates a Sigil class that is used by Sigil for formatting information in internal stylesheets.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_62">How do I add blank line?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Don't. Its much better to use stylesheets to define the amount of space above or below your special sections using a style definition. For instance to leave 1.5 lines of space above a paragraph:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
p.blankabove { margin-top: 1.5em; }</pre>

  <p class="calibre1">If you really want to, you can insert a break:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
&lt;br /&gt;</pre>

  <p class="calibre1">or an empty paragraph:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
&lt;p&gt;&amp;nbsp;&lt;/p&gt;</pre>

  <p class="calibre1">For multiple blank lines, its best to use a style to define the amount of space you want to leave.</p>

  <h3 class="heading">How do I start a new page?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">If you use a separate file for your page, then almost all ereaders will start a new page for your text.</p>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_42">How can I use an image for a Chapter heading in the TOC?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Switch to code view and find your image – it will look something like:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
&lt;img src="../Images/myimage.png" /&gt;</pre>

  <p class="calibre1">Add the heading tag you want to use for the image and give it a title to display in the TOC, e.g.</p>
  <pre class="example1">
&lt;h1 title="CHAPTER 1"&gt;&lt;img src="../Images/myimage.png" /&gt;&lt;/h1&gt;</pre>

  <p class="calibre1">The TOC will now have an entry called "CHAPTER 1" which links to your image.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">You can even use heading tags with no text in your document if you just want a Chapter entry:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
&lt;h2 title="Chapter Subsection"&gt;&lt;/h2&gt;</pre>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_43">How do I add margins to the text?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Add this text with your preferred left and right margins to your CSS definitions:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
@page {
   margin-left: 5px;
   margin-right: 5px;
}</pre>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_35">How do I remove the white space between paragraphs?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">To remove the white space between the paragraphs, add this to CSS definitions:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
p {
    margin: 0; 
    padding: 0;
}</pre>

  <p class="calibre1">This will affect <em class="calibre16">only</em> the paragraph spacing (the <em class="calibre16">p</em> means paragraph). To remove <em class="calibre16">all</em> the whitespace between the various elements and make the document look more “book like”, use this code:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
body, div, p, h1, h2, h3, h4 { margin: 0; padding: 0; }</pre>

  <h3 class="heading" id="heading_id_45">How do I add a “drop cap”?</h3>

  <p class="calibre1">Drop caps are not supported in all readers, but there are several ways to do a drop cap. If your book is formatted just right, it can be done just with CSS.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">Add this code to your CSS definitions, which will set the text using the “dropcap” class in a span tag to use certain values:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
span.dropcap {
    float: left;
    font-size: 4.7em;
    line-height: 0.8em;
    margin-right: 3pt;
    margin-bottom: -0.1em;
}</pre>

  <p class="calibre1">In Sigil, find the paragraph you want to start with a drop cap, and switch to Code View. Change the text from something like this:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
&lt;p&gt;Hello&lt;/p&gt;</pre>

  <p class="calibre1">to:</p>
  <pre class="example1">
&lt;p&gt;&lt;span class="dropcap"&gt;H&lt;/span&gt;ello&lt;/p&gt;</pre>

  <p class="calibre1">Switch back to Book View and you should see the drop-cap.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">Add <span class="example">&lt;span class="dropcap"&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</span> around all the letters at the start of paragraphs where you want a drop cap.</p>

  <p class="calibre1">You might need to adjust the values for font-size, line-height and margin-bottom to get the effect you want. Sigil’s Book View may not show exactly how it’ll appear on all ereaders, but it’s pretty close.</p>



  </div>

  
  <div class="calibreToc">
    <h2><a href="../../../index.html"> Table of contents</a></h2>
     <div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="introduction.xhtml">Introduction</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="introduction_about_sigil.xhtml">About Sigil</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="introduction_about_epub.xhtml">About EPUB</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="introduction_contents.xhtml">Contents</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="installation.xhtml">Installation</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="installation.xhtml#installation_windows">Windows</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="installation.xhtml#installation_mac">Mac</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="installation.xhtml#installation_linux">Linux</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="features.xhtml">Features</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="overview.xhtml">Overview</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="user_interface.xhtml">User Interface</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="open_and_save_files.xhtml">Open and Save Files</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="book_view.xhtml">Book View</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="code_view.xhtml">Code View</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="preview_view.xhtml">Preview View</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="book_browser.xhtml">Book Browser</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="table_of_contents.xhtml">Table of Contents (TOC)</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="metadata_editor.xhtml">Metadata Editor</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="find_replace.xhtml">Find &amp; Replace</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="images.xhtml">Images</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="splitting_and_merging.xhtml">Splitting and Merging</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="spellcheck.xhtml">Spell Check</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="validation.xhtml">Validate and Clean</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="preferences.xhtml">Preferences</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="tutorials.xhtml">Tutorials</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="tutorial_create_epub.xhtml">Create an EPUB</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="tutorial_edit_epub.xhtml">Edit an EPUB</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="tutorial_regex.xhtml">Use Regular Expressions</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="tutorial_links.xhtml">Create Links and Footnotes</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="tutorial_stylesheets.xhtml">Use Stylesheets</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="tutorial_embed_fonts.xhtml">Embed Fonts</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="tutorial_tips.xhtml">Tips</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="faq.xhtml">FAQ</a>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="faq.xhtml#faq_questions">Where to Get Help</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="faq.xhtml#faq_starting_sigil">Starting Sigil</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="faq.xhtml#faq_using_sigil">Using Sigil</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="faq.xhtml#faq_formatting">Formatting and Styles</a>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="contributing_to_sigil.xhtml">Contributing to Sigil</a>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>


  </div>
  

  <div class="calibreEbNav">
    
      <a href="tutorial_tips.xhtml" class="calibreAPrev">previous page</a>
    

    <a href="../../../index.html" class="calibreAHome"> start</a>

    
      <a href="contributing_to_sigil.xhtml" class="calibreANext"> next page</a>
    
  </div>

</div>

</body>
</html>
